anywhere inside too um you're telling me that you brought out these marvelous these these high spots in the collection to show these women i guess from from you have a friend of mine uh uh uh actually the older one was a marvelous person and they have been so enthusiastic about this visit and uh yeah the girl is uh head of the philosophy department at the school
It's St.
Joseph's College.
It's about the size of Holy Cross English.
And the other one is much older, but still teaches French, I guess.
So it's the first time I've ever been here.
And I took him to lunch.
And so I've been hearing about it ever since.
Maybe it's a letter from Washington.
My wife said,
Well, they came from Buffalo and he was an orthopedic surgeon there.
The family's pretty much down in that area.
She's got it down there.
One's married with the children.
And so we'll get back to Alice's sister from them, saying what a marvelous time they had up here.
The thing that they saw, I never expected to see.
That's the way it hits people.
It hits everyone.
I mean, if you have any feeling at all for American history.
Now, you have, God knows how many thousands of documents and manuscripts and items out here.
And what amazed me, last year, when you walked me through, you just seemed to know where everything is.
And you said, oh, this will, I remember, now, I'll never forget the quote.
Oh, we have things here that'll make your mouth water.
And you get so excited.
And it's, to me, it's, you know, it's like that of language.
This is the kind of thing that
that I really feel the electricity, you know, but you walk out there and you must say, oh, look at this, and you'll pull out this new thing.
Well, you know, some of them are very moving.
I remember having a friend of mine, we were in service together, we met, actually, in Aberdam, we had the Persian Gulf.
We were made cryptography.
Well, my first year was when I went in.
I was spying everyone that day, and I was 33 at the time.
So you were spying?
Yeah.
They said, oh, well, I guess you'll be going into the Echo instead of the McDales assigned to military police.
Well, we had some infantry training for a year, and then I was sucked out of that.
the University of New Hampshire, and we were examined and so on.
We ended up by going to the University of Pennsylvania, pretty arrogant.
Well, we were there for nine months, and by the time we were ready to do anything, we were supposed to go to French, North Africa.
Well, about that time, the Americans were consistently.
They cut the whole program, wiped it out.
So we sent down, we were
Mariner Tennessee, which is a B-24 base, and we spent about three months there just doing time, doing all these silly things, close order drill, gas drill, and all this other business.
And that was May.
We were shipped to Virginia, and we were there for a couple of weeks, and then we went across on June 1st in a convoy of 84 ships.
And we were at sea on D-Day, so we had to have radio balance, there could be no communication.
And we went right from there, right through Frosty, Atlantic, and through the Mediterranean to Egypt.
And we were there for a little while, and we were put in the code room to learn how to candle laugh, and then once or so later,
I was going out that way, and they put me on a plane, and I flew from there to Aberdeen by the Arabian Peninsula.
It was dark, and it was campfires.
And I was there.
They said that it wouldn't keep us there more than four months, because it was so hot.
Well, I was there 11 months.
The temperature there, it was when I left
Abaddon will go back to Cairo, to Payne Field, which is now the Egyptian National Air Force.
It was 118 degrees in air-cooled temperature.
That means it shrouded from the directly right of it or something, and 135.
There was a book written about the Persian Gulf Command, and a fellow claimed it was a temperature of 118 degrees.
You know, you couldn't, you worked in the morning and late.
It was north, south coming down to the
We had a Russian detachment on that basin.
Plains would come over in parts, we put together, then turned over to the Russian flights.
Sometimes they made out, sometimes they didn't.
And then there was a truck load that went right up to Russia.
So we had that for quite a while, and then the Russians pulled out.
It was an interesting country.
And some of the people became very close friends.
And they were all a thick group anyway.
And most of them were interested in seeing places.
And after you did your day's work, you were on shifts around the clock.
You were afraid you'd go out.
So we went to the Caldees.
just because we had to get an office to go to the top ranks from a frozen one in all the states.
And if you get somebody who would be with you in the truck, you could go places.
So we went into Iraq, into the city where the Cowleys, and in the 20s, the British Museum, and the University of Pennsylvania, of all places, had a joint expedition there to try to get to the level of the great flood.
And you could look up and you could see little oil lamps and everything else in the face.
And you looked up and you could see humans sort of down into a big, big pit.
And there are these things just sparkling all over.
And you know, the light was passing on the wall.
It was just mud all the way up.
It was fascinating.
What a feeling, what a feeling must be that little parts of it.
Ed Laws.
It was a marvelous feeling.
But walking through one of these places.
It's a great ziggurat, you know, there.
And we get up to the top.
And I guess they were carrying out some maneuvers there, the Iraqi army, that we could hear firing and we could see in the distance the river.
And then we went up to the site of the Trabolonian captivity.
And there was the tomb of Daniel that's supposed to go on again.
which appeared in all the Iranian currency at the time.
And then there was a shrine where Daniel was buried, surrounded by ironware.
And then there were some houses close by, really.
So you nourished your brain while you were in the middle of the desert, didn't you?
Oh, no, we went out, and whenever we could, yes.
And a lot of Iraq had been with the Princeton Arabs, but we were a pen when they were a Princeton.
And I think that was what happened to the Arabian student mother that actually came up there.
The dialect was different from North Africa and Egypt.
You know, you could understand common words.
So it was exciting.
And if you're interested in travel, it was fun.
And one of the things that amused me most was
These ladies were there hoping to pray at Daniel's tomb, hoping to become pregnant.
And then if they were successful, then they would give their probably most precious home ornaments.
And when I was surprised to find all these kitchen clocks,
All came from Connecticut.
And I met one of the big men down at the Connecticut Historical Society and told him about all of those out there, and he was so amused.
Are you familiar at all with the Hague?
Did you know Dr. Houghton?
No, he would not, but I didn't know him, no.
Or Harrison Hornblatt, I guess, was quite a collector.
I knew him.
I met him.
He was in scientific stuff.
Yeah, but he just quit.
He died a little while ago.
Yes.
But he and Houghton are examples of collectors who had put together a spread of collections and then just a board with it, I guess, and stuff.
Do you think that was the reason?
I don't know.
No, I met him somewhere.
I'll just kind of throw that out.
I've heard it suggested.
Why do people stop collecting?
Roger Scott said this.
I'd be curious to know why some people stop collecting, you know, as much as I would be as to learn why they start.
We're talking about the personality and the motivations, I guess.
Well, I think I knew Matt Jones, who was one of my favorite people.
He was a collector, but he would eventually give his, he had a Vermont collection.
I don't know whether he gave it or sold it to the American Antiquarians.
Matt Jones.
Matt B. Jones.
He was president of New England.
He was still in town.
He was a man I met when I came here.
He was almost like a father from 1911.
Then he had a Vermont collection.
Yeah, he had built a Vermont collection.
Then he started in another field, and he built quite a lot of things.
And he gave us, we bought some, he gave us some money to buy from the boys, but he too wanted to pretend people have a chance to have an interview.
And so, oh, he was a wonderful man.
And then Tom Streeter was his great pal.
They were both graduates, you see, and they'd come here to Mr. Jones' house on the eve of the Harvard Department.
They'd always come over here to see if they were duplicating.
I said, well, when I do this again, they would come here to the Society to see what?
See if there are any duplicate copies, because Mr. Jones at that time was trying to weed out duplicates.
Sometimes they'd have five copies of the same thing, you know.
But I mean, why would he look here?
Well, he knew that there was, he knew Mr. Jones, he knew that there were some things that he might be interested in.
Oh, I see.
So he could buy some of these things.
I see.
later they were in the sale.
I read a, I picked up a small book, a series of lectures, and it was at the University of Minnesota, and book collectors and scholarship, and this fellow Wright, I think his name is, who was out of the Folger Library for some time.
Louie Wright.
Louie Wright, yeah.
He said, he wrote, and I have this book at home, that if it weren't for book collectors, and who in turn made their stuff up,
directed their stuff to institutions, that there would be aspects of American history and American culture that would be lost.
And he cited as two examples, Huntington and Folger, of course, Folger, because he worked there.
And he also says that it is almost unique in the United States to have research libraries such as this, such as the Antiquarian Society, such as the Huntington, such as the Folger, such as the Morgan, such as the Newbury, and everything.
But a dozen of them
that are basically institutions that were founded upon the collections of individuals who also had the foresight to endow these things in the establishment and he said you don't find this anyplace else i mean you agree with that you think that you think that's a fear assessment uh well i i don't know though i i am equipped to answer that because um
It's interesting though.
They are.
And you get sea collectors and they do a great service because eventually out of them some can use a book called bibliography of some of them like almanacs and things like that, music.
We had a number of people working on sheet music.
Driscoll had a great collection.
I don't know what, I think finally the Newbury Library got it.
It's the sheet music, you know.
Now, we're indebted to collectors who know so much about their particular subject.
They're the ones who can tell you to see it.
They've been working on the field for 10 years or so.
They know what they're talking about.
Well, Bradley Martin is said to have been putting authority on ornithology.
And then why didn't he keep it?
Well, he's the same way.
He felt.
I talked to Nicholas Barker about this, and I talked to him who knew him.
And I talked to John Marion from South and Leeds last week, who knew him.
This fellow I'm going to see later this week, Dave Kirschenbaum, I guess, had lunch with him three days a week, and they're largely responsible for him getting many of the things that he got.
And so far from these three people who knew him well, have said, you know, if he was so meticulous in everything he did, if he really wanted these things to remain as a library, he would have done it.
He would have taken care of it.
But he, as the others you've mentioned,
felt, hey, where would I have gotten my books if it weren't for other collectors?
Let's give it a new life out there.
Everything shouldn't necessarily go into an institution.
Right.
Some ought to have the fun of collecting.
I mean, it was fun for an awful lot of them.
And they were forcing them to cut me.
Well, that's obvious.
Yeah.
I mean, they're not going to go out and get the big things they want.
No, I've seen a lot.
because of mostly academics who were coming in.
And because they are doing research, they have people from England else just now.
And another point that should be made about the Martin collection, while it is, was perhaps the finest collection, there were ornithological books in one collection, they were unique.
We weren't talking about manuscript things.
I mean, there were Audubons, there were Audubons, they were all, because they're everywhere.
So, why not let the collectors have a whack at it?
We're talking about really unique manuscript items.
If you've got, you know, the only surviving copy of Audubon's Field Notes, well, that should be an institution, I would think, and it has to go to scholars.
Well, these things are moving around.
I mean, a while back, one of the trustees was Groton School.
Which school?
Groton.
Groton School.
some of the things up there that they were in a building which didn't seem to have any protection, and asked me if I'd go up and look.
So I went out and churned up into a building, there were all the letters of presence on the wall, open front and rear, nobody there.
And so as a result, they placed with us, if it was a presence, and also the elephant
portfolio of autobots.
Had that just there sitting in this room?
No, those weren't in that room, but these things are, and, and, and, and, so, I, yeah, and they, I don't know, they lacked two or three, only two or three, uh, and, um, so, they placed them down with us.
They, uh, so you have an autobot there?
No, no.
They took them out and sold them.
They broke it up, too?
They sold them to a dealer who I'm sure broke them up and sold things individually.
What do you feel about that?
Well, there aren't any people who'll be able to buy another portfolio.
Look, Japanese just spent three million dollars.
Three million dollars.
Well, we had a set here.
We're in the early days.
And it was sold for $5,000.
Sold?
Yes, it was sold.
By the society?
By the society.
Oh, that's horrible.
Yeah, well, it was way, way back.
Well, but they needed it.
They probably just needed the money, and it wasn't.
It was there, but there were a lot of copies around.
And when I saw a $3 million star, you know.
Well, the story of the antiquarian society is even worse.
When Audubon was trying to sell the thing, he went through Worcester, and twice they wouldn't talk to him.
They were too busy.
That's documented.
You know, he came through.
And Marcus says, well, hey, he was just another bookseller in those days.
He was just trying to sell his book.
Well, he was.
I think we have some other letters here.
But, no, I went out to a house, and some of these great things were sold, and the big, big sales of the labeling.
And, what do you want?
It's a natural history.
Great, great volumes.
the house of one of these friends out here.
Well, this was not our field.
But what we did get, we got the papers that we didn't know were Chinese, the Unitarians, the father of the Unitarians, and things like that.
So we came away with a great collection, and also a collection of such great
And she's the wife of the Miner.
The Miners were here in the east, the Sedgwick from the west, and they were this wonderful cross-state correspondence that went on all the time.
Then the Sedgwick, the first woman to write the page.
Really?
Yeah.
And so we have her diaries and so forth here.
Eliza Sedgwick.
I think what you're saying, in other words, is that focus is everything in a collection, too.
You can't collect the world.
And I think that's one of the great things about this area.
On the whole, they're trying to collect to their collecting fields.
Here, how we collect literary things, we don't collect them.
But the thing that might come to us, we both know that— Except you have two years before the Mass, though.
Yeah.
That's an exception.
That's part of the huge collection of DNA.
Okay, yeah.
And I know—we realize that if a donor wants to give things a certain place, you have to accept it, or you're going to lose it.
So we understand that.
So we'll have things that, sure, some will say they ought to be on it.
Bill Brown would know that they shouldn't be at Harvard, because they wouldn't go anywhere, probably.
But you better take them.
They didn't accept them, so you take them.
So we worked that, and the afternoon... Do you ever think of, do you work out deals in the long run, though?
Maybe the afternoon has something that you like, and you have something that the afternoon might... If they're given, you can't do that.
You can't.
Look at that story over the Jewish Historical Society in Waltham.
That's quite a story, isn't it?
What story is that?
Isn't that the Council of Friends?
Catherine Mariah, that's what it is.
Catherine?
Yeah, C-A-C-H-A-R-I-M-A-R-I-A.
Mariah, Mariah.
What are her years?
Does it happen?
She is 1789, 1867.
So she came well with it?
You'll find her in the C-A-B.
I can't recall the name of this document, but it was something that Rosenwald bought, and it was this horrible document, but it was old, and it was very precious in terms of scarcity.
But it was about the trial of Jews considered them, which almost validated anti-Semitism.
Rosenwald did not want this thing to fall into the hands of the Nazis, and so he commissioned Rosenwald to buy it,
Council of Trent, something like that.
Simon of Trent, some such type.
He got it at auction in the 30s.
Then he gave it to the Society and Wall Fair and said, keep it.
I don't want it.
I hate it, but I don't want it to fall into the wrong hand.
Three years ago, something would be sold for $176,000 because they needed the money to pay the electricity out there, I guess.
And I guess it finally wound up with yeshiva.
in New York.
But the point is, he gave them this with the understanding that they would keep it forever, and maybe they found a loophole and they went ahead and sold it.
In any case, these things happen.
Well, I think I can see some of that Grotten, I mean, telling them.
Well, what does Grotten need it?
Well, the Worcester Library sold the Stubbs stuff.
Remember that?
No.
They had the Stubbs drawings, the anatomical drawings.
Worcester Public?
The Worcester Public Library found them in its basements about five years ago, and they were along to the Worcester Art Museum, and then no one bought it for Yale, like one and a half million dollars.
And there was everyone saying, please go sell these things.
No, you stay there.
I just want to move through it.
Oh, I'm sorry.
Okay.
I'd love to see whatever you, before you get in front.
I don't want to antagonize any of those words.
I've got till March of 91 to finish my book.
I'm under contract to produce a manuscript by then.
And what I will do is transcribe this stuff.
And anything I use, I will show you.
How about that?
I commit myself to that without any reservations.
I don't think there's anything else to do.
No, no.
You never know that sometimes people are very... I want everybody to be happy with what they say.
We really haven't had anything confrontational with...
Well, I think that this place is wonderful because it really is.
One time, you know, it was just like a 5 o'clock already, and a lot of people couldn't get in, like moms and youth resources.
And about the turn of the century, I guess we went into C4, one of the great members of the Ford family.
said that they had to do something about allowing scholars and eventually they agreed that there can't be a closed place.
What's the only great thing here?
And that was done.
And before long, there were complaints.
Some of the members were complaining that they were just right.
Was there opposition to it?
Oh, that is normal, you know, whenever you try to change something, especially with older people, and most of our members are after being older.
But then it went right through, and at first, I think there might have been some opposition to the club, you know, a very distinguished Boston town.
I think one of the many features that distinguishes this society is the fact that you're a publishing society.
Oh, well, we reduced that.
Well, we're one of the great publishing societies.
Just look at it.
And on the other, this is all the original material published by us.
In fact... I mean, it's not just a repository.
We go the next step.
Well, one of the stories I liked of Thoreau in his book on Cape Cod.
Walking along the end under his arm, because there was...
from the early days they used to get the cows, the cows, the cows, the oldest inhabitants, and so forth.
So where is this?
We're going to find this.
That's a great little anecdote.
Well, I think it's an essay on King Todd, you know.
But I mean that he, the fact that he was walking along and he had the MHS?
Yeah, that's how it happened.
So we both had him.
Yeah.
Just wrap up a little bit on Jeremy Belknap, a little bit, if you could tell me.
Do you feel, how do you feel being his successor, shall we say, carrying on in his, was he a great man in your view?
Maybe give me some quotes on Jeremy Belknap.
Well, I think, what you call a great man, I don't know.
I mean, he was great at his business, I think.
That's important to be very frank here.
He was a minister up in Dover, New Hampshire, and he was having trouble with his parishioners.
I guess he wasn't being paid or unknown, so it wasn't, it was all together to his likeness.
And I think he was glad to get out of there.
And when he came here, he came to the Federalist Church, he was a member of.
And then he began to find people who, what he did about preservation of books, not only in a simple repository.
And he had a friend in Philadelphia to read with him.
But it was a time when this was going to happen anyway.
Someone was going to start.
The man in New York was very much interested in having a repository.
So these people were writing back and forth these days.
All of a sudden, say, hey, you've got a nation here.
And that's just one of the reasons for it.
Now we have to celebrate.
We are a new nation.
We've got to collect our materials.
And this stuff is going to go.
I mean, he had too many examples when he was writing this history, you see.
He couldn't find the materials.
But that's usually how it happened.
I think I got that.
There's so many of the things that just can disappear.
And people use them.
things and so forth, and had no central repository, where would you put them?
I mean, Isaiah Thomas basically put together his collection because he was documenting the printing, the history of printing in North America.
And he had to go out and get the materials.
And when he got the materials, he said, hey, of course, by then he would have a place.
I mean, it grows naturally, doesn't it?
And, of course, he was very wealthy at that time.
He was wealthy.
Yeah, he was at Thomas in 1812 when he founded the AAS.
Well, I think Bill Lapp was an interesting man, because we have his papers here.
And we have to put him in perspective.
He's not a great man in a sense.
Well, he was a good historian.
He was a good historian.
He had good ideas.
And he certainly had the right ideas about founding and his military.
However, if he didn't do it, you're confident that somebody else would.
Well, probably.
It usually happens that way, don't you think?
It had to happen.
It has to be maintained.
But this is the first one in the United States, isn't it?
Yes, it is.
So he was ahead of his time.
And of course, I think the real thing that's so good about that time is people had things that they were willing to turn over.
You know, there was a turn at the beginning.
They were invited.
and new members.
And they did.
There were lists.
You'll find lists of things that were turned in by various new members.
That was the start, you know.
People who were present at the creation, so to speak.
Right.
And I think around 1821, a man turned in the Newburgh Congress, the Washington skylighting.
What are your memories?
It's an absolutely marvelous document.
The last paragraph.
Will I be able to find his identity in these papers?
The fellow who turned this in?
Well, it's right on... Okay.
But it's the kind of thing I'd like to document.
That's the kind of thing I'm looking for.
It's a wonderful story.
Well, the last paragraph is so moving.
The last paragraph in his address, the Newberg address, to the soldiers.
Remember, they were going to rebel because they had not been paid and so forth.
It's just a wonderful document.
Probably nobody even knew this document existed before the member gave it to you, right?
Well, I think they knew about it because there was a great fuss about the whole business about they were going to be broke because they had not been paid and so forth, and that was quite... But I mean in terms of the actual document.
No.
This member who gave you the document.
I don't even remember whether he was a member or not.
That somebody just gave it?
Somebody gave it, yes.
Because his name is on the book plate.
I can find out who he is.
Well, I'll find out because I can... Now it's interesting you, isn't it?
Yeah.
Well, because I remember reading the last paragraph
Of the address.
Of the address to my friend, Walter Barrett.
And my friend, in England, I'm a music boy.
He was tough.
He really was very moving back then.
When did it come into the society?
It's about that time.
That's a wonderful story.
I'm going to wrap up on that.
You've given me two hours of your time.
Just not quite.
It was very enjoyable.
I hope we do it again.
I hope so.
And I'm going to shut this off now.
Do they say that again?
I'm sorry.
The sandwich is supposed to do really well.
We may get two volumes out next year.
This is on a diary of letters.
No, not letters.
And then I'll be through.
I've done this often out for years and years.
And then I guess they will continue.
They think that there may be three more volumes sometime.
Actually, it's a great movie.
So you enjoy this?
Well, I do it to a point.
You know, after a while, I'll be working on it too long.
Are you having trouble reading his trance, deciphering his... Yeah, well, his handwriting is very difficult.
And of course, he blurs and blocks and everything else and crosses out.
And then to see all these things... Is that the year there?
17... 1751, maybe?
51, yeah.
This will be published by?
Yeah.
He was what, I'm sorry?
Well, he is a sign of the Declaration.
He was opposite John Adams in Boston, Nashville.
Oh, really?
And he was first attorney general in Massachusetts.
Not insignificant.
And he was from 1777 to 1790.
uh the attorney general and get old business with uh taking properties and some of that this is uh from is that e.e cummings did you tell me that last time i was here so and then he went out of supreme judicial court and we have all those charges to the grand jury so it's a great subject and i think i've got the one that you can only get in the way of being dean of the boston college well that's kind of busy
But it's RV E. Company, right?
Yeah.
Well, that's the kind of thing that doesn't really... And that's a Copley.
That's a Copley.
Yeah.
Who's the subject?
His name is Jackson.
It is Jean-Jacques Rousseau by Quentin Latour.
That's only a Copley.
But this is a... That's his guard in there.
That's an original Copley coil.
Yeah, yeah.
Not bad.
I think it's past that one.
Past that one.
And that was the guy originally.
M-A-C-K-N-I-G-H-T.
This is the... It's gorgeous.
Look at the condition of that.
It's fine, savage.
We have the original plate.
Uh-huh.
This is pulled from the original plate?
Spectacular.
And this is somebody's grandfather's life.
An old lady called me and asked me if I would want to come over this.
She had some old furniture and she said, would you like this?
No.
It's wonderful.
I don't think so.
So you can't afford to pay for them, that's fine.
Okay.
We're in there.
A member of the Society gave us this new collection.
And we have taken out all the books that we've needed.
And we have duplicate, so I call Sue Bauman.
Oh.
So she made a selection of all the books that they can have.
And these, I think, are not just a little bit far.
The D.O.W.S.E.
Library, the D.O.W.S.E.
Library, which came... It came, uh, oh, let me see.
Uh, no, it's the date that I can't have.
It's an account of a little bit of some time in your mind.
Okay.
But again, this was a gift.
A library...
I'm sorry, I just got stopped when I see these things.
This is not from that collection, this is a statue.
Oh, my.
Oh, isn't this extraordinary?
That's the one of the English people from Boston.
Yeah.
I think it's the one.
What is it?
Christian Riddick did the watercolor.
Uh-huh.
So that's the original watercolor.
That's the original watercolor.
And we have another copy there, a smaller copy.
Uh-huh.
oh my this is the council room this is these books are extraordinary bindings are they who is this again these are the distance
These were all his books?
Yeah.
There is some kind of a, you have some kind of a catalog of this available at some point, that I might be able to.
This is the kind of thing I'm looking for.
How many volumes?
There must be three or four thousand volumes there, I would say.
Some of the very rare drinking items are in there, too.
Any literary things?
Oh, yeah.
There's Byron's works.
There's Hallowell's Life and Shakespeare.
Now, did you think he bound all of these himself?
No, I think he probably was very selective.
He was one of the great villains.
He was?
No.
He has
Oh, I see.
He was the... And that is he?
That's he.
Who did the portrait?
Do you know offhand?
No, I don't.
That's all right.
I thought it might be somebody dazzling like, you know, Copley or... These busts are just busts.
Yeah.
Sir Walter Scott by Sir Francis Liggett Chantry.
Yeah, that's very well-known, this one.
Robert Charles Winthrop, sixth president, by Powers.
Aaron Powers, the one of the famous American school.
That one is another one, it's one of the Peabody's, which is the main Peabody Institute and Peabody and so forth.
These plastics are going to go.
This must be one of the high spots of the collection, I would say, in terms of eye appeal, you know, the permanency of this.
A recent gift.
You're talking about the piece of furniture?
Yes.
Do you think the society would be interested in this?
Oh, okay, yes.
And I thought I surely would be.
And then he had it appraised, and he said, hey, about a million dollars, maybe?
I don't know.
I never knew, but at least they're aware.
At least would these things go far enough.
And it was appraised by the great appraiser in New York.
And so I wonder a little bit, well, maybe he won't be able to afford to give it to us.
And he did.
And he was first out of there as well.
It was done by a child's child.
And it was a fifth generation of family drawing.
It's wonderful.
Maybe that's one reproduction.
That is a reproduction.
Pretty good eye.
And this was along the child somewhere.
This desk.
That was a chair in which he sat and was a cane by Christian Brooks.
When he was what by Preston Woods?
When he was what?
You said when he was what?
Well, he came out in one of his great, child's son, great operations against slavery.
And he spoke badly of the senator, a certain senator, his nephew.
He was so angry he came in.
Sumner was a tall man who was sitting there and he'd find Rodell's and he'd feed him over there with a cane.
He shattered the cane.
Wow.
Sumner couldn't get up because he was tied to the floor and he sprung and wrenched it out.
He had to retire from the summit for 70 years.
Really?
Yeah.
That's funny, is it?
Look at that.
It's wonderful.
This is one of the features of the Museum of Fine Arts Show.
bicentennial exhibition what do we call this room that we're in here does it work at the hamilton room used to sit here and those are early portraits of the winters who never came to this country but their name certainly resonates doesn't it well this place is wonderful what a feeling to well it's a lovely place and one of our members
He did all the great painting.
He's an artist.
He did all the fine things.
He did some of our painting.
And he said, never let him assuage you to move from this thing.
He said, you'll never make this.
It's all an English oak.
This is where you have your exhibits, this little one.
This little one, yeah.
So we're doing photography here, I guess.
Beautiful.
Southwest Native.
Southwest Native, yeah.
Two platinum photographs.
Just coincidental, over at Houghton Library, they have some Sir Thomas Phillips photographs.
which were being displayed.
It came out of his collection.
Nobody even knew he had it.
In fact, Hornblatt, I guess, bought them.
A sight unseen.
Harrison Hornblatt.
He bought them and gave them to the whole room and the library.
Well, it's nice when you have people with kids.
Look up there.
A handsome old cannibal.
Alvin would put it out by the narrative.
I'm going to get back to Worcester, but I cannot thank you enough for the time that you've given me today.
And we'll do it again.
Again, I'm now looking at the pastels.
The famous, that's Blight.
That's how you pronounce that?
Benjamin Blight of John and Abigail Adams.
1676.
Which are probably some of the oldest portraits in North America.
They are.
They were sort of...
that this man, she was Mrs. Baker.
Mrs. Baker, mother of Nicholas.
Mother, yeah, mother of Nicholas.
And this is her brother.
Look at the date, 1675, that's when that portrait was done.
And I have the letter of transmittal, and it's in 1676.
He was writing to St.
Louis Trump, who owned Nava's Island.
He knows to be controlled.
And he said, I am simply the portrait, of course.
This is Samuel Shunshun, Elizabeth Baker, and Married to that man.
So these all kind of came in one lock.
That is not an original.
That is a copy.
Just this one?
Yeah, because the original's in here.
That's Catherine Roberts.
They were sending her shade across.
One, two, three.
We have four portraits.
And then the same family gave us this chance.
which every year we have a contention from winter to winter, which is probably done in the 1680s.
It's called a court.
1680.
It's called the what?
Court.
A court, or B court?
A, yeah.
And the portrait of Mrs. Baker hangs over it.
It looks like she's a 17th century woman.
Yes, she was an Iron Man.
Same picture, I suppose.
That is the first sailing painting down here.
That's the ship Beth Bell, two of you, is probably printed, probably painted in England, 1748.
No, I thought it was done here, I guess.
Well, I mean, that's what it says there, but they probably know.
Right out in the cold, are you?
Now we're in another.
We call it a river.
The inner sanctum, everything's rare here.
That was a silk flag given by John Hancock, who covered originally during the Revolution.
Which is that piece of theory.
That's a huge thing.
And they found about, and I said, Angelica, I don't think I could stand them.
They said, put it, and send it down, and we'll take care of it.
Put it in good shape.
They did.
And who is this he said?
National portrait gallery.
Look at this stuff.
Is this the room where you showed me the Mather, the unpublished Mather?
See, I remember.
Yeah.
No, that's a, that's a, uh... You said that awaits somebody who has the, who has the, who has the... Oh, yeah.
That's a manuscript.
These are books.
I'm sorry.
These are all books.
Yeah.
And these newspapers, the first, the last newsletter, the first one to be continuously printed.
Is it?
Just here on the wall on the corner.
You know where everything is, don't you, huh?
I love a little chair here on the corner.
Little alcoves.
You have books of hours?
Well, we have several.
Twenty years ago, it seems not worth very much.
It changed.
It's changed.
Everything's worth something.
Diary of a Clues from China and Japan.
George Kennan.
George Henry Pebble.
Pebble.
Oh, Pebble.
He's in the shipping family.
Pebble is very famous.
Mr. Robert Haswell.
Columbia is the first person to go around the way of the bus.
And they started with... Just find these things here on the shelves.
Well, they get these here, actually.
Ah, yeah, these are other.
Cincinnati's here.
It's all part of the breadth of the collection, you know, and the depth, I guess.
Well, okay.
We're over here.
I almost am.
What a place.
That's gorgeous.
I'm sorry.
The harbor at Hong Kong about 1850.
Oh, isn't that wonderful?
I've been to Hong Kong when I was here.
Yeah.
Because, you know, I went to work overnight, I guess.
For a couple of weeks.
Yeah, that's very long.
Well, several.
I was, it was the end of the course that I had.
I wasn't like, we had the things I saw there.
Dorothy Q, the Holmes poem.
Oliver Wendell Holmes is the artist unknown.
But that's the portrait of Dorothy Quincy Jackson, 1776.
The gift of Oliver Wendell Holmes.
I'm just talking right outside the second floor elevator.
There she is.
That's a famous poem.